# long non-coding RNA expression in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus  
This repo contains the code to reproduce all the analyses for the 20.440 Project
*"Investigating differential expression of long non-coding RNAs in Systemic Lupus
Erythematosus"*  

The purpose of this project is to generate an analysis of the long non-coding
RNAs present in the Panwar et. al. dataset.  

# Data  
The raw data contained in this repo is a count matrix from the bulk RNA seq
experiments run by Panwar et. al.  

>Data source: https://ay-lab-tools.lji.org/sle/index.php

Bulk RNA seq data were generated using an Illumina 2500. Detailed methods are
outlined in the manuscript cited below. Briefly, PBMC's were collected from a
cohort of patients with interferon positive or negative SLE and a healthy cohort.
PBMCs were sorted by immune cell type according to surface markers using
dynabeads and flow cytometry. These subpopulations and a sample of the classical
monocytes were subjected to bulk RNA-seq analysis for each patient. The raw
Illuina data and patient demographics are stored in NCBI with the accession
number PRJNA627214.

Citation:
Panwar, B., Schmiedel, B. J., Liang, S., White, B., Rodriquez, E., Kalunian,
K., ... & Ay, F. (2020). *Integrative transcriptomic analysis of SLE reveals
IFN-driven cross-talk between immune cells.* bioRxiv.

# Directory Structure  
**Raw Data**  
Contains the count matrix of RNA-seq reads aligned to Gene IDs from
the Panwar et. al dataset.

**Code**  
Contains the required scripts to reproduce figures for differential
expression analyses. Currently it is only populated with the sample_figure
method used to generate a representative clustered heatmap. This heatmap has
no biological implication and was merely for data visualization testing
purposes.

**Figures**  
Contains heatmaps and other figure plots generated by the
data processing code in the Code Folder.

# Installation  
To re-make the figures you wull need a Python 3 environment. Install pip and
then use pip to install the required packages listed below:
